0.62 update (#4020)
MicrosoftDocs/windows-uwp: hub/powertoys/image-to-text.md

---
title: PowerToys Image to Text utility for Windows
description: Image to Text is a convenient way to copy text from anywhere on your screen.
ms.date: 04/27/2022
ms.topic: article
no-loc: [PowerToys, Windows, Image to Text, Win]
---

# Image to Text utility

Image to Text is a convenient way to copy text from anywhere on your screen. This code is based on [Joe Finney's Text Grab](https://github.com/TheJoeFin/Text-Grab).

## How to activate

> With the activation shortcut (default: <kbd>⊞ Win</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>T</kbd>), you'll see an overlay on the screen. Click and hold your primary mouse button and drag to activate your capture.  The text will be saved to your clipboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the activation shortcut (default: <kbd>⊞ Win</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>T</kbd>), you'll see an overlay on the screen. Click and hold your primary mouse button and drag to activate your capture. The text will be saved to your clipboard.
```

## Adjust while trying to capture

> By holding <kbd>shift<kbd>, you will change from adjusting the capture region's size to location. When you release <kbd>shift<kbd>, you will be able to resize again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By holding <kbd>shift<kbd>, you will change from adjusting the capture region's size to moving the capture region. When you release <kbd>shift<kbd>, you will be able to resize again.
```

## Things to note

This uses OCR (Optical character recognition) to read the text on the screen.  It may not be perfect so you will have to do a quick proof read of the output.

## Settings

From the Settings menu, the following options can be configured:

| Setting | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| Activation shortcut | The customizable keyboard command to turn on or off always on top for that window. |

> | Do not activate when Game Mode is on | Prevents the feature from being activated when actively playing a game on the system. |

Reviewer: Image to text only contains the Activation shortcut settings. Everything else can be removed.

Author: grrr, thought i deleted all that stuff.

Author: this looks outdated at this point.
